packages/ds-assets/icons/README.md, before:

# Canonical DS Icons

This directory contains all of the icons used by our Design System.

## Icon requirements

Each icon shall:
1. Be stored as a single SVG file this directory
2. Be named using the format `<name>.svg`
3. Contain a single `<g>` element with the id `<name>`.
4. Use the same SVG canvas size. Currently, we are using 16x16.
5. All paths shall be filled with `currentColor`.

The [`src/icons/standardize-icons.ts` script](../src/icons/standardize-icons.ts) script will standardize all icons (except ones with `-dark` versions, to be revisited later) in the [`/icons`](../icons) folder to follow these requirements.
Run the script with `bun run standardize-icons`.

## Coloring

We have some icons that have colors baked into them. These will be addressed in a follow-up. These icons are, as of 12 September 2025:
1. Branded icons, which will likely need to keep their brand colors ultimately:
    1. `facebook`
    2. `github` (has discrete light/dark versions)
    3. `instagram`
    4. `linkedin`
    5. `rss`
    6. `x` (has discrete light/dark versions)
    7. `youtube`
2. Other non-branded icons, which may be good candidates for adjusting to be monochrome:
    1. `conflict`
    2. `conflict-resolution`
    3. `email`
    4. `error`

There are other icons that are stored as monochrome, but have historically been filled with a color in Vanilla. These icons are, as of 12 September 2025:
    1. `status-failed`
    2. `status-in-progress`
    3. `status-succeeded`
    4. `status-waiting`
    5. `success`
    6. `unit-running`
    7. `warning`

## TypeScript Support

### Constants & Types

The [`src/icons` folder](../src/icons) contains the full list of icons as a TypeScript array (`ICON_NAMES`) and as a type (`IconName`).

#### Usage example

```ts
import type { IconName } from "@canonical/ds-assets";

export interface MyComponentProps {
    iconName: IconName;
}
```

Commit message:

update notes/code on icon sizing

packages/ds-assets/icons/README.md, after:

# Canonical DS Icons

This directory contains all of the icons used by our Design System.

## Icon requirements

Each icon shall:
1. Be stored as a single SVG file this directory
2. Be named using the format `<name>.svg`
3. Contain a single `<g>` element with the id `<name>`.
4. Use the same SVG canvas size. Currently, we are using 16x16.
5. All paths shall be filled with `currentColor`.

The [`src/icons/standardize-icons.ts` script](../src/icons/standardize-icons.ts) script will standardize all icons (except ones with `-dark` versions, to be revisited later) in the [`/icons`](../icons) folder to follow these requirements.
Run the script with `bun run standardize-icons`.

## Coloring

We have some icons that have colors baked into them. These will be addressed in a follow-up. These icons are, as of 12 September 2025:
1. Branded icons, which will likely need to keep their brand colors ultimately:
    1. `facebook`
    2. `github` (has discrete light/dark versions)
    3. `instagram`
    4. `linkedin`
    5. `rss`
    6. `x` (has discrete light/dark versions)
    7. `youtube`
2. Other non-branded icons, which may be good candidates for adjusting to be monochrome:
    1. `conflict`
    2. `conflict-resolution`
    3. `email`
    4. `error`

There are other icons that are stored as monochrome, but have historically been filled with a color in Vanilla. These icons are, as of 12 September 2025:
    1. `status-failed`
    2. `status-in-progress`
    3. `status-succeeded`
    4. `status-waiting`
    5. `success`
    6. `unit-running`
    7. `warning`

## Sizing

We aim to provide icons that all have consistent 16x16 viewboxes. However, some of our historic icons do not have 16x16 viewboxes. These icons are stored with their unaltered viewboxes for now, but will be resized/scaled in a follow up:

- `x`
- `x-dark`
- `facebook`
- `instagram`
- `github`
- `youtube`
- `rss`
- `email`

## TypeScript Support

### Constants & Types

The [`src/icons` folder](../src/icons) contains the full list of icons as a TypeScript array (`ICON_NAMES`) and as a type (`IconName`).

#### Usage example

```ts
import type { IconName } from "@canonical/ds-assets";

export interface MyComponentProps {
    iconName: IconName;
}
```
