packages/react/ssr/README.md, before:

# @canonical/react-ssr

Server-side rendering utilities for React applications. Provides streaming HTML rendering with `JSXRenderer`, Express middleware with `serveStream`, and automatic script/link tag injection from your build output.

## Installation

```bash
bun add @canonical/react-ssr
```

Peer dependencies: `react`, `react-dom`, `express` (for Express usage).

## Express Server

Create a renderer that wraps your server entry component:

```tsx
// src/ssr/renderer.tsx
import { JSXRenderer } from "@canonical/react-ssr/renderer";
import htmlString from "../../dist/client/index.html?raw";
import EntryServer from "./entry-server.js";

const Renderer = new JSXRenderer(EntryServer, { htmlString });
export default Renderer.render;
```

Create an Express server using `serveStream`:

```ts
// src/ssr/server.ts
import { serveStream } from "@canonical/react-ssr/server";
import express from "express";
import render from "./renderer.js";

const app = express();
app.use("/assets", express.static("dist/client/assets"));
app.use(serveStream(render));
app.listen(5173);
```

Build and run:

```bash
vite build --ssrManifest --outDir dist/client
vite build --ssr src/ssr/server.ts --outDir dist/server
node dist/server/server.js
```

## Bun Server

The renderer works the same way. For Bun's native server, convert the pipeable stream:

```ts
// src/ssr/server-bun.ts
import render from "./renderer.js";
import { Readable } from "node:stream";

Bun.serve({
  port: 5173,
  async fetch(req) {
    const url = new URL(req.url);

    // Serve static assets
    if (url.pathname.startsWith("/assets")) {
      return new Response(Bun.file(`dist/client${url.pathname}`));
    }

    // SSR render
    const { pipe } = render(req, null);
    const readable = Readable.toWeb(Readable.from(pipeToIterable(pipe)));
    return new Response(readable, {
      headers: { "Content-Type": "text/html; charset=utf-8" },
    });
  },
});

function pipeToIterable(pipe: (dest: NodeJS.WritableStream) => void) {
  const { Readable } = require("node:stream");
  const passthrough = new (require("node:stream").PassThrough)();
  pipe(passthrough);
  return passthrough;
}
```

Or use Express compatibility mode with Bun:

```ts
// Bun can run Express directly
import app from "./server.js";  // Your Express server
export default app;
```

## Entry Points

### Server Entry

The server entry renders the full HTML document. `scriptTags` and `linkTags` are extracted from your build output and injected automatically:

```tsx
// src/ssr/entry-server.tsx
import type { ReactServerEntrypointComponent, RendererServerEntrypointProps } from "@canonical/react-ssr/renderer";
import Application from "../Application.js";

const EntryServer: ReactServerEntrypointComponent<RendererServerEntrypointProps> = ({
  lang = "en",
  scriptTags,
  linkTags,
}) => (
  <html lang={lang}>
    <head>
      <title>My App</title>
      {linkTags}
    </head>
    <body>
      <div id="root">
        <Application />
      </div>
      {scriptTags}
    </body>
  </html>
);

export default EntryServer;
```

### Client Entry

The client entry hydrates the server-rendered HTML:

```tsx
// src/ssr/entry-client.tsx
import { hydrateRoot } from "react-dom/client";
import Application from "../Application.js";

hydrateRoot(document.getElementById("root")!, <Application />);
```

## Building

Two-phase build with Vite:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "build": "bun run build:client && bun run build:server",
    "build:client": "vite build --ssrManifest --outDir dist/client",
    "build:server": "vite build --ssr src/ssr/server.ts --outDir dist/server"
  }
}
```

The client build produces `dist/client/index.html` with bundled script/link tags. The server build imports this HTML string to extract those tags for injection.

## Customization

Pass options to React's `renderToPipeableStream`:

```ts
const Renderer = new JSXRenderer(EntryServer, {
  htmlString,
  renderToPipeableStreamOptions: {
    bootstrapModules: ["src/ssr/entry-client.tsx"],
    onShellReady() { console.log("Shell ready"); },
    onError(err) { console.error(err); },
  },
});
```

Options include:
- `bootstrapModules` - ES modules to load (`<script type="module">`)
- `bootstrapScripts` - Scripts to load (`<script>`)
- `bootstrapScriptContent` - Inline script content

See [React's renderToPipeableStream documentation](https://react.dev/reference/react-dom/server/renderToPipeableStream) for all options.

## Examples

See working examples in the monorepo:
- [`apps/react/boilerplate-vite`](../../../apps/react/boilerplate-vite) - Vite + Express
- [`apps/react/demo`](../../../apps/react/demo) - Full application example

Commit message:

Made the react demo application working

packages/react/ssr/README.md, after:

# @canonical/react-ssr

Server-side rendering utilities for React applications. Provides streaming HTML rendering, Express middleware with `serveStream`, 
and automatic script/link tag injection from your build output.

## Installation

```bash
bun add @canonical/react-ssr
```

Peer dependencies: `react`, `react-dom`, `express` (for Express usage).

## SSR flavors

There are usually two different flavors of SSR to be considered.

Source: [Tanstack Router SSR Guide](https://tanstack.com/router/latest/docs/framework/react/guide/ssr)

### Non-streaming SSR

The entire page is rendered on the server and sent to the client in one single HTML request, 
including the serialized data the application needs to hydrate on the client.

This is what the `StringRenderer` offers.

### Streaming SSR

The critical first paint of the page is rendered on the server and sent to the client in one single HTML request, 
including the serialized data the application needs to hydrate on the client.

The rest of the page is then streamed to the client as it is rendered on the server.

This is accomplished by using the `PipeableStreamRenderer`.

## Express Server

Create a renderer that wraps your server entry component:

```tsx
// src/ssr/renderer.tsx
import { PipeableStreamRenderer } from "@canonical/react-ssr/renderer";
import htmlString from "../../dist/client/index.html?raw";
import EntryServer from "./entry-server.js";

const Renderer = new PipeableStreamRenderer(EntryServer, { htmlString });
export default Renderer.render;
```

Create an Express server using `serveStream`:

```ts
// src/ssr/server.ts
import { serveStream } from "@canonical/react-ssr/server";
import express from "express";
import render from "./renderer.js";

const app = express();
app.use("/assets", express.static("dist/client/assets"));
app.use(serveStream(render));
app.listen(5173);
```

Build and run:

```bash
vite build --ssrManifest --outDir dist/client
vite build --ssr src/ssr/server.ts --outDir dist/server
node dist/server/server.js
```

## Bun Server

The renderer works the same way. For Bun's native server, convert the pipeable stream:

```ts
// src/ssr/server-bun.ts
import render from "./renderer.js";
import { Readable } from "node:stream";

Bun.serve({
  port: 5173,
  async fetch(req) {
    const url = new URL(req.url);

    // Serve static assets
    if (url.pathname.startsWith("/assets")) {
      return new Response(Bun.file(`dist/client${url.pathname}`));
    }

    // SSR render
    const { pipe } = render(req, null);
    const readable = Readable.toWeb(Readable.from(pipeToIterable(pipe)));
    return new Response(readable, {
      headers: { "Content-Type": "text/html; charset=utf-8" },
    });
  },
});

function pipeToIterable(pipe: (dest: NodeJS.WritableStream) => void) {
  const { Readable } = require("node:stream");
  const passthrough = new (require("node:stream").PassThrough)();
  pipe(passthrough);
  return passthrough;
}
```

Or use Express compatibility mode with Bun:

```ts
// Bun can run Express directly
import app from "./server.js";  // Your Express server
export default app;
```

## Entry Points

### Server Entry

The server entry renders the full HTML document. `scriptTags` and `linkTags` are extracted from your build output and injected automatically:

```tsx
// src/ssr/entry-server.tsx
import type { ReactServerEntrypointComponent, RendererServerEntrypointProps } from "@canonical/react-ssr/renderer";
import Application from "../Application.js";

const EntryServer: ReactServerEntrypointComponent<RendererServerEntrypointProps> = ({
  lang = "en",
  scriptTags,
  linkTags,
}) => (
  <html lang={lang}>
    <head>
      <title>My App</title>
      {linkTags}
    </head>
    <body>
      <div id="root">
        <Application />
      </div>
      {scriptTags}
    </body>
  </html>
);

export default EntryServer;
```

### Client Entry

The client entry hydrates the server-rendered HTML:

```tsx
// src/ssr/entry-client.tsx
import { hydrateRoot } from "react-dom/client";
import Application from "../Application.js";

hydrateRoot(document.getElementById("root")!, <Application />);
```

## Building

Two-phase build with Vite:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "build": "bun run build:client && bun run build:server",
    "build:client": "vite build --ssrManifest --outDir dist/client",
    "build:server": "vite build --ssr src/ssr/server.ts --outDir dist/server"
  }
}
```

The client build produces `dist/client/index.html` with bundled script/link tags. The server build imports this HTML string to extract those tags for injection.

## Customization

Pass options to React's `renderToPipeableStream`:

```ts
const Renderer = new PipeableStreamRenderer(EntryServer, {
  htmlString,
  renderToPipeableStreamOptions: {
    bootstrapModules: ["src/ssr/entry-client.tsx"],
  },
});
```

Options include:
- `bootstrapModules` - ES modules to load (`<script type="module">`)
- `bootstrapScripts` - Scripts to load (`<script>`)
- `bootstrapScriptContent` - Inline script content

See [React's renderToPipeableStream documentation](https://react.dev/reference/react-dom/server/renderToPipeableStream) for all options.

## Examples

See working examples in the monorepo:
- [`apps/react/boilerplate-vite`](../../../apps/react/boilerplate-vite) - Vite + Express
- [`apps/react/demo`](../../../apps/react/demo) - Full application example
